# Inheritance

Often you need classes with similar properties and methods to exist in another
existing class. In fact, it is considered good practice to define a generic 
class which contains reusable functionality and can adapt for specific needs.

To make this possible, classes can be extensions of other classes. The extended
or derived class has all properties and methods of the base class. This is
called inheritance, despite the fact that nobody died in the process.

Classes are extended using the parameter `extends`.

```javascript
var NamedCart = Class({ extends: Cart }, {
    'public string owner' : null
});
```

This creates a class definition *NamedCart* that has all properties and methods
of *Cart* plus the additional `owner` property. You can still use the generic
functionality of *Cart* on an object instantiated from *NamedCart*.

```javascript
var ncart = new NamedCart();

ncart.setOwner('Bob');         // Name the cart
console.log(ncart.getOwner()); // Print "Bob" to the console
ncart.addItem("Some Item", 1); // (inherited functionality from Cart)
```

This is also called a parent-child relationship. You create a class, parent,
and use *extends* to create a new class based on the parent class: the child 
class. You can even use this new child class and create another class based
on this child class. This process is also known as 'inheritance chain'.

> Classes must be defined before they are used. If you want the class NamedCart
> to extend on Cart, you have to make sure Cart is already defined. If you want
> a class named BonusCart to extend on NamedCart, then NamedCart must be
> defined first.

## Overriding

Sometimes it is necessary to override the functionality of a parent method. 
This can be achieved by simply redeclaring the same method or property in the
derived class.

Beware that the [visibility](/meta/visibility) of a property or method can't be
changed. For example, if a property is `public` in the parent class and you try
to declare it `private` in the child class, an exception is thrown.

```javascript
var NamedCart = Class({ extends: Cart }, {
    // Override addItem from Cart
    'public addItem' : function (name, count) {
        // Call the parent method
        this.super('addItem', name, count);
        
        // Print something to the console
        console.log(this.getOwner(), 'added item', name, 'to the cart!');
    }
});
```
> The `super` method is used to call an overridden method from the parent 
> class. The object context of the parent class (the `this` variable) remains
> a reference to the child class.


*Warning*
> `extends` is an existing ECMAScript keyword. Some browsers, notably Internet
> Explorer 8 and below will throw an error when these keywords are used. You'll
> need to wrap the keyword in quotes to work around this. The same applies to
> `implements` and `super`.

```javascript
var ECMA5CompatibleCart = Class({ 'extends' : Cart }, { 

    'public addItem' : function (name, count) {
        // Use array-syntax to call the "super" method.
        this['super']('addItem', name, count);
    }

});
```
